docs(chart):Add KB for custom legend (#1928)
telerik/blazor-docs: knowledge-base/chart-custom-legend.md

---
title: Custom Chart Legend

> description: How to design my own chart legend

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: How to create a custom Chart legend that is outside the component and includes rich HTML and additional components.
```

type: how-to

> page_title: design custom chart legend diffent from the built-in 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
page_title: How to Create a Custom Chart Legend
```

> slug: chart-custom-legend

Reviewer: ```suggestion
slug: chart-kb-custom-legend
```

position: 
tags: telerik, blazor, chart, legend, css, html
ticketid: 1637556, 1640086
res_type: kb
---

> ## Environment

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Environment

```

> <table>

Reviewer: Use 4 spaces instead of tabs

	<tbody>
		<tr>
			<td>Product</td>
			<td>Chart for Blazor</td>
		</tr>
	</tbody>
</table>

> ## Description

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Description

```

> How to change the Chart Legend graphics and apply my own design? I want to have different Chart Legend Title and Icons. How to customize the Chart Legend UI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This knowledge base article answers the following questions:

* How to customize the Chart legend UI?
* How to change the Chart legend graphics? I want to use custom markers and define the color of the legend item labels.
```

> ## Solution

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Solution

```

> Change the Chart Legend design with HTML/CSS. You need to:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use a custom Chart legend, you need to:

```

> * Disable the built-in legend
> * Use HTML markup or any other components to create the custom legend content

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Disable the built-in legend with `<ChartLegend Visible="false" />`
1. Define specific colors for the Chart series or data points [through `Color` or `ColorField`]({%slug components/chart/types/column%}).
1. Implement the custom legend UI outside the Chart.
1. Use the same Chart series or data point colors in custom Chart legend.
```

> >caption Custom Chart Legend with ListView

Reviewer: ```suggestion
>caption Custom Chart Legend with a ListView
```

````CSHTML

> @*Chart with custom legend*@
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

        },
        new ProductModel
        {
            Name = "Computers",
            Value = 800,
            Color = "orange",
            Year = DateTime.Now.Year
        },
        new ProductModel
        {
            Name = "Computers",
            Value = 200,
            Color = "purple",
            Year = DateTime.Now.Year + 1
        }
    };

    private async Task OnListViewRead(ListViewReadEventArgs args)
    {
        args.Data = await GenerateData();
    }

    private async Task<List<ProductModel>> GenerateData()
    {
        foreach (var phone in Phones)
        {
            ListViewData.Add(phone);
        }
        foreach (var tablet in Tablets)
        {
            ListViewData.Add(tablet);
        }
        foreach (var computer in Computers)
        {
            ListViewData.Add(computer);
        }
        return await Task.FromResult(ListViewData);
    }

    private class ProductModel
    {
        public string Name { get; set; } = string.Empty;
        public double Value { get; set; }
        public string Color { get; set; } = string.Empty;
        public int Year { get; set; }
    }
}
````

## See Also

> [Override Theme Styles]({%slug themes-override%})

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [Chart Legend Documentation]({%slug chart-legend%})
* [Chart Legend Customization Demo](https://demos.telerik.com/blazor-ui/chart/legend-customization)
```

---
title: Custom Chart Legend
description: How to create a custom Chart legend that is outside the component and includes rich HTML and additional components.
type: how-to
page_title: How to Create a Custom Chart Legend
slug: chart-kb-custom-legend
position: 
tags: telerik, blazor, chart, legend
ticketid: 1637556, 1640086
res_type: kb
---

## Environment

<table>
	<tbody>
		<tr>
			<td>Product</td>
			<td>Chart for Blazor</td>
		</tr>
	</tbody>
</table>

## Description

This knowledge base article answers the following questions:

* How to customize the Chart legend UI?
* How to change the Chart legend graphics? I want to use custom markers and define the color of the legend item labels.

## Solution

To use a custom Chart legend, you need to:

> 1. Disable the built-in legend with `<ChartLegend Visible="false" />`

Reviewer 2: You need some ending punctuation here.

1. Define specific colors for the Chart series or data points [through `Color` or `ColorField`]({%slug components/chart/types/column%}).
1. Implement the custom legend UI outside the Chart.

> 1. Use the same Chart series or data point colors in custom Chart legend.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Use the same Chart series or data point colors in the custom Chart legend.
```
